README.md, before:

Laptop
======

Laptop is a script to set up an macOS laptop for web and mobile development.

It can be run multiple times on the same machine safely.
It installs, upgrades, or skips packages
based on what is already installed on the machine.

Requirements
------------

We support:

* macOS Mavericks (10.9)
* macOS Yosemite (10.10)
* macOS El Capitan (10.11)
* macOS Sierra (10.12)

Older versions may work but aren't regularly tested.
Bug reports for older versions are welcome.

Install
-------

Download, review, then execute the script:

```sh
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thoughtbot/laptop/master/mac
less mac
sh mac 2>&1 | tee ~/laptop.log
```

Optionally, [install thoughtbot/dotfiles][dotfiles].

[dotfiles]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/dotfiles#install

Debugging
---------

Your last Laptop run will be saved to `~/laptop.log`.
Read through it to see if you can debug the issue yourself.
If not, copy the lines where the script failed into a
[new GitHub Issue](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/issues/new) for us.
Or, attach the whole log file as an attachment.

What it sets up
---------------

macOS tools:

* [Homebrew] for managing operating system libraries.

[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/

Unix tools:

* [Exuberant Ctags] for indexing files for vim tab completion
* [Git] for version control
* [OpenSSL] for Transport Layer Security (TLS)
* [RCM] for managing company and personal dotfiles
* [The Silver Searcher] for finding things in files
* [Tmux] for saving project state and switching between projects
* [Watchman] for watching for filesystem events
* [Zsh] as your shell

[Exuberant Ctags]: http://ctags.sourceforge.net/
[Git]: https://git-scm.com/
[OpenSSL]: https://www.openssl.org/
[RCM]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/rcm
[The Silver Searcher]: https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher
[Tmux]: http://tmux.github.io/
[Watchman]: https://facebook.github.io/watchman/
[Zsh]: http://www.zsh.org/

Heroku tools:

* [Heroku Toolbelt] and [Parity] for interacting with the Heroku API

[Heroku Toolbelt]: https://toolbelt.heroku.com/
[Parity]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/parity

GitHub tools:

* [Hub] for interacting with the GitHub API

[Hub]: http://hub.github.com/

Image tools:

* [ImageMagick] for cropping and resizing images

Testing tools:

* [Qt 5] for headless JavaScript testing via [Capybara Webkit]

[Qt 5]: http://qt-project.org/
[Capybara Webkit]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/capybara-webkit

Programming languages, package managers, and configuration:

* [Bundler] for managing Ruby libraries
* [Node.js] and [NPM], for running apps and installing JavaScript packages
* [Rbenv] for managing versions of Ruby
* [Ruby Build] for installing Rubies
* [Ruby] stable for writing general-purpose code
* [Yarn] for managing JavaScript packages

[Bundler]: http://bundler.io/
[ImageMagick]: http://www.imagemagick.org/
[Node.js]: http://nodejs.org/
[NPM]: https://www.npmjs.org/
[Rbenv]: https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv
[Ruby Build]: https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build
[Ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/
[Yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com/en/

Databases:

* [Postgres] for storing relational data
* [Redis] for storing key-value data

[Postgres]: http://www.postgresql.org/
[Redis]: http://redis.io/

It should take less than 15 minutes to install (depends on your machine).

Customize in `~/.laptop.local`
------------------------------

Your `~/.laptop.local` is run at the end of the Laptop script.
Put your customizations there.
For example:

```sh
#!/bin/sh

brew bundle --file=- <<EOF
brew "Caskroom/cask/dockertoolbox"
brew "go"
brew "ngrok"
brew "watch"
EOF

default_docker_machine() {
  docker-machine ls | grep -Fq "default"
}

if ! default_docker_machine; then
  docker-machine create --driver virtualbox default
fi

default_docker_machine_running() {
  default_docker_machine | grep -Fq "Running"
}

if ! default_docker_machine_running; then
  docker-machine start default
fi

fancy_echo "Cleaning up old Homebrew formulae ..."
brew cleanup
brew cask cleanup

if [ -r "$HOME/.rcrc" ]; then
  fancy_echo "Updating dotfiles ..."
  rcup
fi
```

Write your customizations such that they can be run safely more than once.
See the `mac` script for examples.

Laptop functions such as `fancy_echo` and
`gem_install_or_update`
can be used in your `~/.laptop.local`.

See the [wiki](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/wiki)
for more customization examples.

Contributing
------------

Edit the `mac` file.
Document in the `README.md` file.
Follow shell style guidelines by using [ShellCheck] and [Syntastic].

```sh
brew install shellcheck
```

[ShellCheck]: http://www.shellcheck.net/about.html
[Syntastic]: https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic

Thank you, [contributors]!

[contributors]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/graphs/contributors

By participating in this project,
you agree to abide by the thoughtbot [code of conduct].

[code of conduct]: https://thoughtbot.com/open-source-code-of-conduct

License
-------

Laptop is © 2011-2017 thoughtbot, inc.
It is free software,
and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the [LICENSE] file.

[LICENSE]: LICENSE

About thoughtbot
----------------

![thoughtbot](http://presskit.thoughtbot.com/images/thoughtbot-logo-for-readmes.svg)

Laptop is maintained and funded by thoughtbot, inc.
The names and logos for thoughtbot are trademarks of thoughtbot, inc.

We are passionate about open source software.
See [our other projects][community].
We are [available for hire][hire].

[community]: https://thoughtbot.com/community?utm_source=github
[hire]: https://thoughtbot.com?utm_source=github

Commit message:

Make script execution commands clearer
https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/pull/496

README.md, after:

Laptop
======

Laptop is a script to set up an macOS laptop for web and mobile development.

It can be run multiple times on the same machine safely.
It installs, upgrades, or skips packages
based on what is already installed on the machine.

Requirements
------------

We support:

* macOS Mavericks (10.9)
* macOS Yosemite (10.10)
* macOS El Capitan (10.11)
* macOS Sierra (10.12)

Older versions may work but aren't regularly tested.
Bug reports for older versions are welcome.

Install
-------

Download the script:

```sh
curl --remote-name https://raw.githubusercontent.com/thoughtbot/laptop/master/mac
```

Review the script (avoid running scripts you haven't read!):

```sh
less mac
```

Execute the downloaded script:

```sh
sh mac 2>&1 | tee ~/laptop.log
```

Optionally, review the log:

```sh
less ~/laptop.log
```

Optionally, [install thoughtbot/dotfiles][dotfiles].

[dotfiles]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/dotfiles#install

Debugging
---------

Your last Laptop run will be saved to `~/laptop.log`.
Read through it to see if you can debug the issue yourself.
If not, copy the lines where the script failed into a
[new GitHub Issue](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/issues/new) for us.
Or, attach the whole log file as an attachment.

What it sets up
---------------

macOS tools:

* [Homebrew] for managing operating system libraries.

[Homebrew]: http://brew.sh/

Unix tools:

* [Exuberant Ctags] for indexing files for vim tab completion
* [Git] for version control
* [OpenSSL] for Transport Layer Security (TLS)
* [RCM] for managing company and personal dotfiles
* [The Silver Searcher] for finding things in files
* [Tmux] for saving project state and switching between projects
* [Watchman] for watching for filesystem events
* [Zsh] as your shell

[Exuberant Ctags]: http://ctags.sourceforge.net/
[Git]: https://git-scm.com/
[OpenSSL]: https://www.openssl.org/
[RCM]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/rcm
[The Silver Searcher]: https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher
[Tmux]: http://tmux.github.io/
[Watchman]: https://facebook.github.io/watchman/
[Zsh]: http://www.zsh.org/

Heroku tools:

* [Heroku Toolbelt] and [Parity] for interacting with the Heroku API

[Heroku Toolbelt]: https://toolbelt.heroku.com/
[Parity]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/parity

GitHub tools:

* [Hub] for interacting with the GitHub API

[Hub]: http://hub.github.com/

Image tools:

* [ImageMagick] for cropping and resizing images

Testing tools:

* [Qt 5] for headless JavaScript testing via [Capybara Webkit]

[Qt 5]: http://qt-project.org/
[Capybara Webkit]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/capybara-webkit

Programming languages, package managers, and configuration:

* [Bundler] for managing Ruby libraries
* [Node.js] and [NPM], for running apps and installing JavaScript packages
* [Rbenv] for managing versions of Ruby
* [Ruby Build] for installing Rubies
* [Ruby] stable for writing general-purpose code
* [Yarn] for managing JavaScript packages

[Bundler]: http://bundler.io/
[ImageMagick]: http://www.imagemagick.org/
[Node.js]: http://nodejs.org/
[NPM]: https://www.npmjs.org/
[Rbenv]: https://github.com/sstephenson/rbenv
[Ruby Build]: https://github.com/sstephenson/ruby-build
[Ruby]: https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/
[Yarn]: https://yarnpkg.com/en/

Databases:

* [Postgres] for storing relational data
* [Redis] for storing key-value data

[Postgres]: http://www.postgresql.org/
[Redis]: http://redis.io/

It should take less than 15 minutes to install (depends on your machine).

Customize in `~/.laptop.local`
------------------------------

Your `~/.laptop.local` is run at the end of the Laptop script.
Put your customizations there.
For example:

```sh
#!/bin/sh

brew bundle --file=- <<EOF
brew "Caskroom/cask/dockertoolbox"
brew "go"
brew "ngrok"
brew "watch"
EOF

default_docker_machine() {
  docker-machine ls | grep -Fq "default"
}

if ! default_docker_machine; then
  docker-machine create --driver virtualbox default
fi

default_docker_machine_running() {
  default_docker_machine | grep -Fq "Running"
}

if ! default_docker_machine_running; then
  docker-machine start default
fi

fancy_echo "Cleaning up old Homebrew formulae ..."
brew cleanup
brew cask cleanup

if [ -r "$HOME/.rcrc" ]; then
  fancy_echo "Updating dotfiles ..."
  rcup
fi
```

Write your customizations such that they can be run safely more than once.
See the `mac` script for examples.

Laptop functions such as `fancy_echo` and
`gem_install_or_update`
can be used in your `~/.laptop.local`.

See the [wiki](https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/wiki)
for more customization examples.

Contributing
------------

Edit the `mac` file.
Document in the `README.md` file.
Follow shell style guidelines by using [ShellCheck] and [Syntastic].

```sh
brew install shellcheck
```

[ShellCheck]: http://www.shellcheck.net/about.html
[Syntastic]: https://github.com/scrooloose/syntastic

Thank you, [contributors]!

[contributors]: https://github.com/thoughtbot/laptop/graphs/contributors

By participating in this project,
you agree to abide by the thoughtbot [code of conduct].

[code of conduct]: https://thoughtbot.com/open-source-code-of-conduct

License
-------

Laptop is © 2011-2017 thoughtbot, inc.
It is free software,
and may be redistributed under the terms specified in the [LICENSE] file.

[LICENSE]: LICENSE

About thoughtbot
----------------

![thoughtbot](http://presskit.thoughtbot.com/images/thoughtbot-logo-for-readmes.svg)

Laptop is maintained and funded by thoughtbot, inc.
The names and logos for thoughtbot are trademarks of thoughtbot, inc.

We are passionate about open source software.
See [our other projects][community].
We are [available for hire][hire].

[community]: https://thoughtbot.com/community?utm_source=github
[hire]: https://thoughtbot.com?utm_source=github
